---
layout: post
title: "Chalermsub Thamrongchaiworakun - The Student Report Podcast EP.1"
date: "2019-08-31 22:00:00 +0800"
tags: podcast
img: /img/ep1.png
podcastlink: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jH6gyOwXPtE"
guestname: "Chalermsub Thamrongchaiworakun"
epno: "1"
---
<div class="viddiv"><iframe class="podcastvid" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jH6gyOwXPtE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
# Chalermsub Thamrongchaiworakun
### The Student Report Podcast - Episode 1
for Issue 1, 2019

Abridged Content:
------
**Ludfee: What even is World Scholar's Cup?**
<br>Bamboo: I'll be honest I don't really know about it
that much, but it -- well, I know it's a competition
where we debate, we take quizzes, we write
essays, and make friends. 

**L: So then you qualified for the Sydney round, 
how did that feel when you were you won?**
<br>B: Happy. Really happy, yeah.

&emsp;&emsp;I then went over and asked about each of the
days in his trip. In the two days was free time,
where they rested and went to see around the
city. The third day was the opening ceremony.

**L: So what did you do at the introduction?**<br>
B: The host said what it is, why it’s important to
be here, how you should be proud to be here, how
you should appreciate it, and have a good time.<br>
**L: And did you appreciate it?**<br>
B: I mean it was kinda boring. -chuckles-

&emsp;&emsp;Afterwards, there was a scavenger hunt.

**L: So, scavenger hunt, you had to work with
other people, but did it feel weird, though, that
there were so many other people from other
places?**<br>
B: Yeah, it’s quite amazing to see these people,
with my eyes, from other nations, from across the
world, being there.

&emsp;&emsp;The fourth day was a trip for the junior
competitors, but it was just another break for
Bamboo and other seniors. On the fifth day was
another event. Then the sixth day is the main
event, where they did the essays, the quizzes, and
the debates.

**L: Did you get defeated in the debates?**<br>
B: Well, we got defeated two times and won one.<br>
**L: Then, the quizzes, what were they about?**<br>
B: We had arts, history, special areas, we had a list
of things to study for.<br>
**L: And then you had the essays, how was that?**<br>
B: They give you a prompt that you need to write
about and you need to explain why you agree or
disagree with it. So it is like, opinion. And you
have to convince the judges.

**L: In the debates, how was it to actually have to
argue with other people?**<br>
B: It was very intimidating.<br>
**L: Legs shaking, stuttering?**<br>
B: Yeah, because I don't usually do this, yeah.<br>
**L: Who was on your team?**<br>
B: It was random people because we didn't have
enough people.<br>
**L: Oh! So, how weird was to it have to work
with people you didn't even know before?**<br>
B: Thankfully, my teammates are really good
and they have experience. They're just really
good.<br>

**L: So what did you win your medal for?**<br>
B: The DaVinci award is just general score
of all the subjects and I got on the list,
yeah.

&emsp;&emsp;The seventh day was the Scholar's
Bowl where they had to answer questions
on screen with their clickers. The eighth
day was the closing ceromony and they
arrived home on 4PM Thailand time.

**L: What is really want to ask here is: what
do you think about having to work with
people you didn't even know? You had to
work with them but also work against
them. How was that?**<br>
B: It was quite exciting, I really liked it.
Before, I was really nervous. I was like 'Oh
god, how should I do this?' but when I
actually did it, it’s pretty good.<br>
**L: Did you feel that they were different
from you, or did you feel like they're
basically the same?**<br>
B: I think everyone have a connection.
We're all humans.<br>

**L: So how was it to travel with your
schoolmates? Who were in your room?**<br>
B: Two boys, Danish and Pu.<br>
**L: So how is it with your youngers?**<br>
B: They're fine.<br>
**L: Were there annoying?**<br>
B: Yeah, somewhat. I won't say anything more.
-chuckles-

# [-Watch the full video!-](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jH6gyOwXPtE)