---
layout: podcastpost
title: "Soccer, Losses and Victory - Abdullah Zain & Monem Alsemien - The Student Report Podcast EP.2"
date: "2019-09-11 22:00:00 +0800"
tags: podcast
category: podcast
img: /img/ep2.png
podcastlink: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-eG-JTBBrcE"
guestname: "Abdullah Zain & Monem Alsemien"
epname: "Soccer, Losses and Victory"
epno: "2"
eplength: 10052643 
epduration: 1077
---
<div class="viddiv"><iframe class="podcastvid" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-eG-JTBBrcE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
# Soccer, Losses and Victory - Abdullah Zain & Monem Alsemien
### The Student Report Podcast - Episode 2
for Issue 2, 2019

Abridged Content:
------
**Ludfee: So you started the game with IPS and you lost 2-1. First of all, how does that feel, first game and you're already losing?**
<br>Monem: It was a new experience for us.
<br>Abdullah: Yeah. New team, new experience for us. We never played together -- 12 players together as one team. We always had other different players.
<br>M: We have never lost the first match before. It was a very big shock. I think we went into it too confident, maybe cocky even. So we got into the lead in the first game, we were up one now, and I think the team lost focus, myself included. We just lost focus and we conceded to goals that stemmed from simple mistakes, mistakes that we should not have made, mistakes that we cleared up in training, but just forgot on the day. So I would say overconfidence was the issue in the first game. 

**L: Then you lost again to NIVA, then afterwards you won?**
<br>M: I'd like to say demolished.
<br>**L: Damn. So, 12-1?**
<br>A: Yes. That one goal was a penalty.
<br>**L: Does that normally happen? Like, more than 10 to 1?**
<br>A: For the previous team it was normal.
<br>M: Yeah, but for us, a new team of 12 players that haven't really played together very much, a team that had lost 2 of the opening games of the tournament, coming back, and winning 12-1 against a side that did sort of well in their first two games. I mean it was a big shock, for us, for the other team, for the teams that were watching us as well. For everyone, basically. It was unexpected
<br>**L: Against MISB right?**
<br>M: Yes, MISB.
<br>L: Are they normally good?
<br>M: Normally better than what they played against us, I'd say that.

**L: How was that turning point? You guys thought you were gonna lose, then you just demolished them.**
<br>M: After the second game, we were absolutely depressed. We were so done about it.
<br>A: I cried, like, 'cause, y'know, I expected to be more than this.
<br>M: We were disappointed  in ourselves, mainly.
<br>A: Yeah. Especially, the two of us.
<br>M: Like I said, after the second game we were really down about it. We had to pull ourselves together. Part of the way that we did do that is we just told ourselves, "Alright, we'll just hope to win the last game. We know we can make it through if we win by a big margin, and NIVA loses their game against IPS" But we told ourselves no matter what, even if we're out of the tournament, we just want to win this game. We just wanna prove to ourselves that we can, we cab win a game, we can do better. And we did it, thankfully.

**L: At which point in the MISB match that you just went "Okay, we're winning this"?**
<br>M: Oh, we did not. We did not tell ourselves, "We're winning this" at all throughout the whole game. Because that's the mistake we made in the first two games. Even when the score was 9-1, we scored a goal, but the people who were running the scoreboard, instead of making it 10-1, they accidentally made it 9-2, and I absolutely went off on the referee on that. I was like, they made a mistake, it's not supposed to be 9-2, it's 10-1, make sure they change that right away! 
<br>A: Because every goal matters.
<br>M: Yeah, every goal matters at that point as well.

**L: Then CIS?**
<br>A: We went into the semi-final thinking like, yeah, we made it already, we were proud of the team, we didn't expect this from the team, that we made it to this point after the second game.
<br>M: We we're really proud of ourselves at that point. Like, no matter what happens after that, we were proud that we pulled ourselves together, we were proud that we made it out of the groups. But, [the semi-final] was a tough match.
<br>A: It was a tough match, we saw them play in the other group, and they looked really, really good.
<br>M: I mean, they topped their group.
<br>**L: Would you say it was the hardest match out of the game?**
<br>M: Like physically, yes. I think the CIS team, was the toughest team to play against in how much they pressed, how physical they were, and tussles between players. But I think the toughest game has to go the final against IPS.

**L: So, the final against IPS. A draw. There was no clear winner, right, during the game?**
<br>A: I mean, we were leading, right?
<br>M: We were leading 2-0. Again, it was a lapse of focus at the end. We were leading 2-0, then they brought it back to 2-2. We scored what we thought, at that point, was a winning goal, because it was late in the game. But, again, lapse of judgement at the end, they had a corner, somebody missed their man, and they scored. 
<br>A: I mean the score would have been different too. There was one goal that they probably made a mistake. We shot it from the side, and it went in, but then were was a hole in the goal, and the referee said he didn't see it.
<br>M: The referee actually realized later.
<br>A: Yeah, he came to check it later, he saw the hole, and he came to say sorry.
<br>M: At that point we were still leading 2-0.
<br>A: So we took it like, it's okay, we were leading, it's alright. But then it really made it after that, because it was a draw, 3-3.

M: I think the words that stuck with us in the third game in the group against MISB and our semi-final, that kinda escaped us later on, were Coach Marc's, saying, back to zero, whenever you score don't consider yourself as winning, don't consider yourself as being in a better position, you're just back to zero. You're trying to score a goal, you're trying to get in the lead, no matter what the scoreline is. I think we forgot those words.
<br>A: I think we should really give him a big credit, because he's not a futsal coach. He's a basketball coach, he normally teaches basketball. But when he come with us, he's like, he knows what we have to do. And he's actually the one who changed the formation for us, right?
<br>M: He actually gave us tips on how the other teams were playing, what we should do as a team. And the biggest part of it was our mental game, he contributed so much to keeping us cool, calm, and collected. Big shoutout to him too.

L: Then the second half finished and it was a draw, then you did a penalty.
<br>M: That was nerve wracking. We don't have a history of being the best at penalties. 
<br>A: We kinda have a bad history with penalties. We lost a final before, because of a penalty. It was like three years ago, I think.

**L: So, You [Abdullah] were named MVP?**
<br>A: Yes.
<br>L: I'm not a sportsperson so I have no idea what that means.
<br>A: So, basically MVP is most valuable player, but to me on that day, I really didn't deserve it. I think it's for the whole team. Everyone did their job. But if I had to choose someone, I would give it to Cliff. He really was amazing.
<br>M: Yeah, latest entry into the team. I mean of course I think [Abdullah] is being modest, I feel like he deserved it. But my second choice would be Cliff as well. Cliff, latest entry into the team, swapped out with Abbas, and he changed our whole defense. Me and Abdullah was supposed to be defender together, but then Cliff came into the team, so I had a reliable second defender who I could depend on, and that freed up Abdullah to go up front and attack. That counted for a lot.

**L: Which moment was the most pressuring?**
<br>A: I would say the penalty shootout.
<br>M: I feel like penalty shootout too. I feel like the extra time was pretty nerve wracking too.
<br>A: Yeah, because we had 4 minutes extra time, but it was a draw. At that point, we wanted a penalty shootout, but chose the extra time. And in extra time anything could happen. Like, one goal would change everything, and it was only 4 minutes.

**L: Anything you want to end us on?**
<br>A: I'd just like to say I'm really proud of the team. Before the tournament, I expected like a fourth or third, maybe, but first? Not at all. We had like really little training, the team never played together, new team. And we were a big name, like Pan-Asia, for the last five years we won four championships. When we came into the tournament, as big name, losing the first game, everyone looked as us like, wow, they changed, Pan-Asia is not supposed to be like this. But in the end, it turns out we won.

# [-Watch the full video!-]({{page.podcastlink}})