---
published: false
layout: podcastpost
title: "Nunie Charoonkolrak & Cece Pettersson - The Student Report Podcast EP.3"
date: "2019-09-29 18:00:00 +0800"
tags: podcast
img: /img/ep3.png
podcastlink: "###REPLACE###"
guestname: "Nunie Charoonkolrak & Cece Pettersson"
epno: "3"
---
<div class="viddiv"><iframe class="podcastvid" src="###REPLACE###" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>
# Nunie Charoonkolrak & Cece Pettersson
### The Student Report Podcast - Episode 3
for Issue 2, 2019

Abridged Content:
------
**Ludfee: So, you guys went, two weeks ago [September 15th], to the Bangpu Nature Education Center?**
<br>Nunie: Yes.
<br>L: The school provided, for some students, school busses, for you guys to go there?
<br>Cece: Yep.
<br>L: You had Grade 6 to 12?
<br>N: Yeah, we also had primary students that came with their parents. There was one KG too.

**L: So, this is Go Green Project number 2, can you tell us about what the first one was?**
<br>C: The first one we went and plant trees. We only invited the Grade 11s and Grade 10s, and the younger grades in high school. We went with around 20 people, and planted around 200 trees, because it was our first time, and we didn't know how much we could handle.
<br>N: But it was a great experience. Even though there is less people, but it went great bigly, and we got to learn many new things, like how to plant trees, and the benefits of having those trees there. So yeah, it's an amazing experience. And then, we went to Pattaya. This program consisted of two activities: mangrove planting, and beach clean up. So, beach clean up was after the mangrove planting. We went to Pattaya, and we faced a problem.
<br>C: Yeah, the beaches were completely clean. So, we asked around and went to a beach nearby called Sattahip beach. We spent a few hours there, and got around 2 bags worth of trash.
<br>N: And we brought it back to the school.
<br>L: So, that was when you were in Grade 11?
<br>C: That was this past summer.
<br>L: So, you're in Grade 12 now?
<br>C: Yes.

**L: What is goal, your main aim, of doing this?**
<br>C: We aim to help educate the people about the environment more, even if it's just some small little tree, it can still help a lot.
<br>N: And, help with pollution, I guess. Like, this country and every other Asian countries are making a lot of plastic pollution. And, literally, if you just walk out of the school, you can see so much plastic. But, initially, we came up with this project because of our CAS teacher, at the time. Her name was Teacher Asli, and basically she told us that we don't have that much CAS money to make build libraries, or make educational projects. So, she was like, how about you guys do some environmental projects. It would be counted as CAS too. So, we were like, yeah, let's go plant some trees, and along with her [Cece] and a few other friends, we came up with this project.
<br>L: Do you think this project has direct benefit, in that planting the tree will contribute a large amount the reducing pollution, or is it more about educating the children, and the people, that this something they should be doing?
<br>N: It's a small step, you have to start with something.
<br>C: It's one and the same, honestly. Like, having people come and help us, also shows them that you don't have to contribute that much in order to help, and also that it's super easy to just do something that could be helpful to the environment, like refusing a plastic straw once in a while, or not eating meat for certain meals. It's a really small change, but it can make bigger difference when you educate them.
<br>N: For me, personally, I think it's a small step. It may not contribute that much but it's the first step in doing something big. Firstly, you get to educate those kids who went with us, who are the future of our generation. They get to learn why we have to do this, for what reason, and how will it benefit themselves and everyone else later. Like, these trees will not just grow in a day. It will take years, but later, it could make that place a better place by having more oxygen and clean air. And of course, when they get educated, they'll do something that's one day will be bigger than ours. Ours is just a small project but one they when they grow up they can do something even better, and be better people than us. That is what we hope for.

**L: So, in the recent months, we have seen people like Greta Thunberg. What do you think of people like her -- children like her -- going up into the world stage, and pointing out the importance of things like this, as child thinking about her future?**
<br>C: I think it's incredibly responsible of her to take it upon herself to have such a big impact. She started with skipping school on Fridays, sitting in front of the building alone to protest, and now there are over millions of people who knows her name and preaches what she preaches. And it really shows how adults these day are super greedy. But it's really amazing, what she's doing, and I hope that one day someone we know -- I hope I get that platform someday to talk about the same thing.
<br>L: On a more local scope, what do you think can be some concrete impacts to the local environment, community, and the livelihood of the people, that could occur we don't do anything at all about this? I know you guys are going to do Soi cleaning. Can you explain your goals and objective with that one?
<br>C: We just want to show the people at our school, and the people around the local area that there is a lot of trash in the soi specifically, and so if we clean that, we can show them the difference that it can make. The grass will be greener, it would smell less, and flooding wouldn't be as disgusting as it is.

**L: So, what do you guys think this is doing for the reputation of Pan Asia?**
<br>C: I think it will be better showing that we care about the environment.
<br>N: At least the locals around here, if they see us that day, that we're helping, they will view the school a little bit better.
<br>L: Now, you guys are in Grade 12. Do you think this will be last time you can do something like this as students?
<br>N: No.
<br>C: If I had a chance to plan something like this again, I would definitely do it, assuming that we have the time.
<br>N: I don't what it will take but I will convince everyone that I know in this school to please continue the project. There's Go Green One, there's Go Green Two. There's a saying that if you start something, there will always be a next time. So, I hope one day you [Ludfee] will be the one, or your class. Can you promise me that?
<br>L: No, but I can promise you that they [readers and listeners] will be the ones who will do this. I hope.
<br>N: Please!

**L: So, you have shown that collectively, we can make a difference, but what do you think our personal lifestyles? For each person, what can they do to help?**
<br>N: Definitely, reduce your use of plastics. You know Hyatt? In case you don't know who Hyatt is, she's this girl in Grade 10, she's my friend's sister. Basically, her family doesn't use plastic anymore. 
<br>C: They do use plastic, but they collect it, and send it to recycle.
<br>N: Which is amazing, like -- I can't.
<br>C: I can't respect them enough.
<br>N: Because like, everyday you need to, somehow, use at least one piece of plastic. For example you go to the Orange Shop, you buy water, and there's already plastic. Or like after school, you want to go to the 7-Eleven -- plastic. 
<br>C: Every time you buy food, you get plastics. Every time you order a drink, you get a straw, or a cup, or both. So, finding alternatives to those things are good. There are bamboo straws, silicone straws, metal straws, or containers that you can take. So, just do anything you can to reduce plastic. Even if you just buy one bamboo straw, you're the world a little bit at a time.
<br>N: Like, we admit that we can't stop using plastic, like, completely. Like she said, you can use it, but you can collect it later and recycle it. Even a small change makes a difference. For example buying water from Orange Shop, you can bring your own bottle and refill it in the cafeteria, and maybe if you want snacks, you can pack some from home in a box and eat it during breaks. 
<br>L: Do you think the problem is caused by insufficient knowledge -- people not knowing about the problems --  or is it more about laziness and unwillingness to change?
<br>C: The root of the problem is that there are big corporations that know this. They know what they're doing and they're choosing to ignore it. 
<br>N: Because money!
<br>C: But the thing with local people is that, it's not really our responsibility. It's not the kids' responsibility. It's not my generation's responsibility to save your wrongdoings. 
<br>N: These corporations are like, if I get money, that's good enough.
<br>C: They know exactly what they're doing, and they're refusing to change, because of their greedy behaviour. But, we're taking time off school, we're taking time off our personal life, in order to educate people. I mean, I post about the environment on social media like at least once a week.
<br>N: More like once a day!
<br>C: I still think it's important that we do take it upon ourselves, because, even though we can't blame locals of causing the pollution, you're still contributing. You're not gonna be suing the corporations for that, so might as well just try to save it a little bit.
<br>N: Unless you go to law school and try to sue those people.
<br>C: If you do that, I will pay you.

**L: Do you think this is a controversial issue or do you think that this is a problem that shouldn't even be a problem, and should just be something we all agree on?**
<br>N: Yes!
<br>C: It should just be a problem that everyone deals with equally. The fact that I heard Greta Thunburg said in an interview, that when she came to America, everyone talks about it like it's a myth, that everyone's arguing whether it's fact or fiction, but where she comes from in Sweden, everyone talks about it as if it was real, because it is real, and there is no doubt about it. It's just that there are so many people that are influencing the way people think, so that they think it might be a hoax. People are literally dying, animals are going extinct, because of this problem. And people are choosing to ignore it and thinking that it's a myth, but it isn't. 

**L: Finally, is there anything you want to say?**
<br>C: Please stop using plastics. Try to find alternatives. And if those alternatives are plastic, just know that you're harming the environment even more. Do your research, and find out how you can contribute, no matter how small the change maybe.
<br>N: This may be dark, but we're gonna die early, if we don't do something. 
<br>C: Our children won't have any chances. There's no point making them.
<br>N: Soon, we will no longer have reason to study, if we don't even have a place to study.
<br>C: We wouldn't have a future at all. If the continue to behave the way it does right now, we won't live past 40. We won't even get a chance to have a midlife crisis. 

# [-Watch the full video!-]({{page.podcastlink}})